Let’s do a quick introduction to skew symmetric
matrices. These matrices are sometimes called
anti-symmetric matrices and they have this
interesting property that the transpose is
equal to the negative of the original matrix.
These matrices are always singular. Their
determinant is always equal to zero.
Any matrix is the sum of a symmetric matrix
and a skew symmetric matrix. In three dimensions,
we can write the skew symmetric matrix which
is a function of a three element vector in
this fashion. So, we have a vector whose elements
are X, Y, and Z. The skew symmetric matrix
looks like this. The obvious features are
a diagonal of zeros. There are two X's in
there. Two Y's and two Z's. One of them has
a positive sign and one of them has a negative
sign.
We can also write a vector cross product as
a matrix vector product. One of the matrices
is a skew symmetric matrix computed from the
first vector.
Here’s a skew symmetric matrix and I am
going share with you some rules of thumb for
how you work out which elements are where
when you write this matrix down. To start
with, there is a zero diagonal. So, that’s
pretty easy. You write three zeros down the
diagonal.
There is also what I think of as an exclusion
rule. So, in row X and in column Y, that element
will not be an extra Y. It will be the other
thing. And in this case, it will be a Z.
If we consider a cyclic rotation sequence.
So, we have an endless sequence - X, Y, Z,
X, Y, Z and so on. If I consider the element
in column Y and in row X, moving from Y to
X, it is going backwards in that cyclic rotation
sequence. Because we are going backwards in
the sequence, I am going to put a minus sign
on that particular element.
If we look at this one over here, we are going
from Z to X. And, that’s a forward in the
cyclic rotation sequence. So, we give this
element a positive sign.